There's a lot of exciting opportunities
and new things you can build that we
only dreamed of in the last, I don't
know, 20 years at least since I'm a
developer.
>> Mhm. We are serving some of the largest
customers. They have a lot of heritage.
They have a lot of complex landscape.
They can reduce like 30% of their
efforts, right? To get to the outcome
faster, which of course then directly
reduces the cost. The time is clearly
over where you design software that
requires the intelligence to sit in
front of the computer. If you look at
classical software, what did you do? You
decided use the interface to teach a
human how they get their tasks done by
clicking through the UI essentially.
This is over.
Hey listeners, welcome back to No
Priors. Today I'm here with Philip
Herzig, [music] the CTO of SAP, the
enterprise juggernaut. We talk about
their AI strategy, why SAP has endured
and thrived through several technology
transitions, why entrepreneurs are
underestimating the challenges of scale,
why AI is a business model transition,
not just a technology transition,
[music]
why he thinks that LLMs are not enough
for predictive analytics, and even about
the traveling salesman problem in the
real world, and the straight of Hormuz.
Welcome, Philip. Philip, thanks so much
for being with us. Yeah, it's a pleasure
to be here. Thank you. Everybody knows
the name SAP, but I do think that for
uh lots of engineers or people who
aren't close to the system in a larger
enterprise, they don't really know like
the breadth and function of the
platform. Like, can you just describe uh
what you guys do for customers?
Oh, absolutely. I mean, look, SAP is the
market leader, right, in enterprise
software applications and platforms,
right? We have 400,000 enterprise
customers, and usually I just running
their finance, HR, and you know, supply
chain, manufacturing execution,
logistics, warehouse management, and
then of course everything on the
customer side, sales, services,
commerce, procurement, you name it,
right?
Um end-to-end, right? So, like SAP, we
always say we have the broadest
portfolio in terms of
end-to-end running the business
end-to-end. This is where SAP started
with, right? The real giving real-time
insight. And usually I really describe
this as it's not just software in
itself, it's kind of the operating
system, right? Of a company essentially
uh in order to get, you know, from from
everything from order to cash and source
to pay, right? End-to-end managed for
companies around the around the entire
globe. Mhm. Um I definitely want to talk
about AI, uh LLM, some of those stuff
that you guys are doing internally and
then around um predictive models as
well.
Uh but just because the the macro
backdrop is on everyone's mind both from
a technology and an economic
perspective,
>> Oh, sure. um I want [clears throat] to
talk about like SAP's position in the
market a little bit. SAP has
stood the test of time through multiple
technology and market cycles.
I, as a early-stage venture capitalist
and and kind of on the other side of
this where the narrative is like, well,
when you have internet and cloud and
mobile and AI and social, like you have
um
an opportunity for new players.
Um What [clears throat] do you like SAP,
you know, even today is the um I believe
the largest like market cap enterprise
software vendor versus
sort of the the last generation of the
new guard, like the salesforces of the
world. Um how has that happened? Like
how did you how did you do it and what
does make what makes it so durable?
Well, what makes it so durable, right?
At the end of the day. I mean, if you
think about this and it's happening as a
little bit the same way also when we
talk about the SaaS estate narrative or
the SaaS apocalypse or I mean, anyway,
we're
I I have the feeling like in this market
last year AI was in the big bubble and
everybody was kind of doing it, "No,
it's not." And
now this year SaaS is dead
and and so on and so forth. Look, the
the reality is
now of course with the the the cost of
building being so low, right? With with
specifically generative coding and all
these latest powerful models, I mean,
something has always prevailed over the
years because even when SAP was founded,
right? In 1972, right? Long time ago.
Um I mean, why was it started? Because
actually in the '70s, when the founders
of SAP were still at IBM, what did they
do? They went to each customer, right?
and they implemented the finance system
again and again and again and again. And
then they said like, "Hey, this makes no
sense, right? Because the economics it
doesn't scale, right? Because of course
you can do this, right? But you can only
add so much value, right? In any given
time." And by the way, we are basically
programming the system
very similar. Of course, there's always
a little bit that is specific then to
the customer. And this was the idea
where standard the the notion of a
standard software was born essentially,
right? And then of course, that stood
the test of time, right? Because there
is simply things and companies that need
to get managed, right? End-to-end. And
that also has transformed throughout the
years. You've mentioned that, right?
First from the mainframe to client
server, right? Then to the internet,
then mobile. And now of course, AI. So,
of course the software has changed and
evolved all along with these
technologies. What hasn't changed is
what customers are seeking for, which is
outcomes, right? Outcomes and return on
their investment in order to get the
things done, right? Um towards And and
of course now AI is an amazing
technology that again uh helps to get
more things done in the enterprise,
right? And then that is actually what
SAP is standing for, right? And
so, what we are really doing is in given
of course also
the breadth of the portfolio and the
customers is of course to help customers
to achieve more by deeply embedding AI
AI agents and of course transforming now
the user interface and so on and so
forth to help them get more right done
in in whichever industry that they are
that they are working in and and and and
we believe that still will
continue right because what this is
exactly what we also seeing right now
with of course there's still of course
there's tremendous progress but we also
see that the AI adoption in the
enterprise is still not where we want to
see it right like there's this Gartner
curve right where they like there's this
AI innovation race and then there's this
AI outcome race right and the gap almost
increases right versus getting getting
narrow and and and and that is what what
we are really focused on right so that
customers get the outcome
from from AI to to achieve more given of
course the foundation we have but
simultaneously of course the system
where we are kind of re-engineering the
entire system right with the help of AI
in in a in a totally new way.
You now as CTO of SAP have like a very
broad purview on it also includes the AI
strategy piece of it internal and for
your customers like
what do you think of as your your own
top priorities for the organization and
where is SAP on this
re-engineering or reimagination journey?
Now look I mean we we are we are in the
meantime all in on AI right
so I mean everybody in the company is
using a genetic coding right like
because that's of course an amazing
productivity boost right that our
developers have no matter in which
programming language they are building
the the software for the customers but
of course it's also really
again focusing on customer outcomes
right and we've seen this for example
early in the early days now with
consulting for example, right? We built
this thing called tool for consulting,
which is phenomenal because it was one
of our fastest growing AI products
because what this actually helps is to
build the
uh to to help the consultants, right? In
the in an SAP project or in a complex
landscape if they're I mean again,
right? We are serving some of the
largest customers. They have a lot of
heritage. They have a lot of complex
landscape to help them actually to move
into the cloud, to adopt the latest AI
capabilities and so on. And with tool
for consulting, they can reduce like 30%
[clears throat]
of their efforts, right? To get to the
outcome faster, which of course then
directly reduces the cost, not just the
time, but also the costs that are
necessary in order to get to to to get
to the to to the latest software. And
we've seen this of course
with concur for example, right? Where
now our travel booking agents of expense
agents are alive and so so there's many
of these outcomes that we're designing.
But when you look from a CTO perspective
really it's in my mind it's three things
that are really getting not not
disrupted, but are massively changing,
yeah? To me the metaphor is a little bit
like
when we move from on-prem to the cloud,
right? Originally everybody thought,
"Hey, we just take the on-prem software
we already built, we put it on the
internet, call it cloud, right?" But
then only over over the certain period
of time people realized, "Oh, what does
actually CI/CD mean, right? You can
deploy daily or multiple times per day."
And then you realize, "Oh, hmm, we
always had multi-tenancy in the on-prem
software already, but then of course in
the cloud you have to learn how to scale
it up and down, right?" And like all of
a sudden the software kind of got
re-engineered, right? To really, you
know, build real SaaS software that that
uh that uh
the with all the concepts, right? In
cloud computing. And with AI the same is
happening, right? And then it's
happening on three levels. It happens of
course on the UI side, right? The time
is clearly over, where you design
software, where the dumb software, where
the that requires the intelligence to
sit in front of the computer, right? So,
I mean, if you look at classical
software, what did you do? You designed
a user interface
trying to Hopefully, you did some user
research, try to figure out in the
easiest way or the most intuitive way to
figure to to teach a human how to get
their tasks done by clicking through the
UI, essentially. This is over, right?
It's now
we call this generative UI, right? So,
the UIs get dynamically generated,
right? If you have analytical questions,
for example, or if you want to do your
deep research, not just the deep
research you find on Perplexity or the
the usual chatbots, but deeply rooted,
let's say, tariffs are being introduced
or new taxes or the straight of formers,
what does this mean for my supply chain?
And then you can analyze this in
conjunction with your SAP data. So,
there's a lot of exciting opportunities
and new things you can build that were
almost impossible that that we only
dreamed of in the last, I don't know,
20 years at least since I'm a developer.
>> Mhm. Where now, you know, the system
becomes much more multimodal, much more
proactive, right? Because it can run
overnight and then only if you wake up
in the morning tell you, "Hey, Sarah,
have you looked at this, right? Here's a
problem on the sales side. Maybe the
order entry is going down. You should do
something here and here are some
recommendations already for this. Or
here, there's a problem in the supply
chain, right? Because now if you're an
oil and gas customer, obviously, you
want to know what are my options you
need to replan, right? Like so, all
these things become super important for
customers and that changes UI.
Then the second one is, of course, the
business processes, like an order to
cash. In the past, of course, it has
variances and so on and so forth, but it
was a rather rigid process. But not like
the standard operating procedure of a
company, but now, of course, with these
agents, right? We can blend the
structured and the unstructured world uh
more seemingly so to get actually more
work done. So, this whole move from
software as a service to some call it
service as a software outcome as a
service. That is of course what these
agents are building for us. And then of
course below that, you have the whole
data layer, right? The whole data layer
of bringing of course SAP has a lot of
super valuable data for a company,
right? Like all your general ledger and
your invoices and
and your warehouse and inventory
information, etc. But of course you now
want to combine this, right, with the
plethora of other data, right, in order
to kind of build this one harmonized
semantical view because only we always
say AI is only as powerful as the data
is, right? So and and that is exactly
what we are then also doing and
transforming on the data side to help
our customers to benefit from a from a
from a globally harmonized data model to
fuel the AI. What is the um biggest
engineering or technical challenge for
for for you guys when you look at, you
know, these three bodies of work or
anything else that you're doing in SAP?
Well, the the biggest challenge quite
frankly is of course when you when you
look at this is how do you
It's actually not the AI so much, right?
But it's actually teaching the AI to do
the right thing at scale.
Right? Because I mean you can Look, you
can build
two years ago, right? Everybody build a
rack service, right? And you can you
could easily with a POC blew off
everybody's
like the CEO's socks and like look at
this how easy it is to build a chatbot
on 10 documents, right?
But that of course but but SAP and and
all of these large customers, right?
They are always have a problem of scale.
Okay, what do you now with 100
documents? It becomes a little harder.
1,000 becomes a big engineering
challenge. And now if you go into Joule,
you are Sarah, you are maybe an SAP
US employee, right? Of course if you ask
a question,
of course for a travel policy for
example, of course you expect a very
different answer that me as a German
employee, right, would would get. So you
then now need to connect this actually
with your master data, like where are
you located, in which country are you,
under which payroll are you actually,
which taxes apply to you, and so on. So
all of a sudden it becomes a very very
tricky problem. Same with MCP, like last
year, oh everybody could build an MCP
server, it was so super simple, right?
To to to hook up your MCP server and do
amazing things with it. But that's
becomes like for 10 APIs not an issue,
100 okay, we will you get already
context blowed and all these these
challenges, but we have
20,000 APIs, right? So it becomes it's
like
yeah it's it's like because it's so
huge, right? There's so so much things.
So it becomes this problem of scale,
right? And doing this really end-to-end
for the customer because what we also
build is really an integrated experience
across so you can ask your finance
question, your HR question, your supply
chain, you can correlate that. Like this
is this is the biggest challenge to
bring that so to speak to to together,
yeah? And design it then really for the
for the for for the right outcome, yeah?
And you said this also it was
interesting. And another interesting
thing is um
from my perspective is
I you had recently this other podcast, I
think with Andre you had it
on
the the most important thing from a
development perspective is actually that
people start writing their e-vals. That
is was was like I was on this tour for a
very long time um
because
um the the problem of why does agent
coding work so well, Sarah? Is um of
course you can verify the outcome,
right? Uh you can either say, "Hey, is
the program compiling?" Or that are your
unit tests, right? Does it work etc. And
and of course combined with a little bit
of taste
uh and a lot of hard engineering work,
Anthropic and OpenAI built these
phenomenal code generation models.
The problem is if you now want to build
a reliable outcome in finance and so on,
you need the data that say, "Hey, with
this input
that's the output, right?" In order so
that the coding agent can validate that
and assert that against the reliable
outcome. And that's something where
there's a mindset shift in terms of how
you
describe the right boundary conditions
to your coding agent, right? The
harness, like like all the boundary
conditions need to be true from a
security perspective and from a data
privacy perspective, all the code
qualities because you also still want to
maintain that code on on day two and day
three and day four, not just get get a
first version by coded. And then of
course, these e-vals, right? That then
tell you, "Hey, this agent is actually
doing what it's supposed to be doing in
a in a in a in a in a variety of ways.
Do you still
And you sometimes need to laugh because
do you still remember in the when I was
a computer science student that where
the Google guys came in in a in a
lecture
and they said like, "Hey, I can go home
at 5:00 p.m. because I wrote my tests."
And of course, this was not You still
remember that test first or test-driven
development
>> it's coming back.
>> [laughter]
>> It's coming back. It's like the the the
the reality is nobody did it. At least I
never did it because it was so much
>> more fun.
It was not very popular at the end. Why
was it? Because A A it was A so much
more fun to write the code first, right?
And then B,
of course, usually the product manager
gave you a very messy requirements. It
was very hard for you to to write the
test actually first. So you while you
wrote the code, you
kind of iteratively discovered what the
system how the system would actually
behave.
>> Mhm. Right? Now the behavior and the
writing the code is so much automated,
right? Because now you can write almost
software like
completely on its own. But of course,
now you need to describe the right
outcome what you want from this thing.
And so that changes very much how the
developers of course also now need to
work, specifically now that the models
have the steps changed since December
last year.
It's really hard
or I think it's not obvious how to
picture
if there's a a version of
[clears throat]
agents and
models powering those agents in
enterprise systems like SAP getting
better in a compounding way, the way
they have in
generic code generation. Do you think
it's possible in terms of verifiability
or the ability to
go understand and evaluate against that
intent because it is much
I don't know if I'm going to say it's
more diverse than code, but it is
it's not it's not obviously verifiable
as you pointed out. Like do you think it
can be? And that that's exactly the
point. That is where the the starting
condition is great, right? I think in
terms of like two lanes. The first lane
is of course we have the system of
record today, right? You know exactly in
the system, hey, given this or that
instruction, right? What is the outcome,
right? Because you can see it in the
database, right? And then you can
construct, hey, if the order to cash
process runs like this, then you need to
expect, right? That the that
the cash like the accounts receivable
needs to come in this way, right? With
the following taxes and so on and so
forth. So that gives you verifiability.
Now the challenge of course is rather
this is never enough,
right? Because
if you just look into the system of
record today, that data is insufficient
for this grand vision that everybody has
that it becomes this autonomous
enterprise or like the agency of these
agents is increasing, right? over time.
So to at the beginning, the agents of
course are coming back to you. Some
people call this human in the loop or
whatever, right? So they need to come
back to you like also still with cloud
code or codex and still ask you some
clarifying questions. Hey, I have now I
could now go this way. I could do that
way. And with that what what what you
want to design for is that you start to
capture more of that context, right? I
always call this the tribal knowledge,
the stuff that is not in the system
stored somewhere that just lives in
people's heads or maybe in slack
channels, maybe in teams channels, maybe
it was just a discussion on the phone,
right? So, it's not stored anywhere. So,
how can you drive a decision from that?
And then so the question is the agent
needs to come back, ask you for input.
Now, you want to store that. And now
what we do, in the past we called this
process mining, now we call it agent
mining,
because you record all these decision
traces, these context what what the
users are entering into the system, and
then you can either use it to say like,
"Hey, wait a minute. This is actually an
anomaly that folks in I don't know, in
UK from our company or the folks in
Australia shouldn't do this, because the
standard operating procedure is this."
Or you say like, "Oh, that's actually a
very good improvement." And then you can
elevate this to be the new standard
operating procedure, maybe not just for
Australia, but maybe for the rest of the
world or more countries to run your
company more efficient, because now you
learned something how the organization
behaves, because it can go two ways,
right? It could be either good
or it could be a bad thing, and then you
maybe want to
streamline the process how people then
actually conduct the process in a
different way. And that then leads to
this kind of I call this then this data
flywheel, so to speak. So, because with
every trace, every input a user gives
you, with all the observability that an
agent writes you, you have new data
sources that can then lead to new
e-vals, right? Where somebody says,
"Yes, that's a verified output so to
speak that I want." And then of course,
you can optimize the system more towards
that outcome.
Uh depending on which which data you
gathered. Do you uh have a strong point
of view today as to whether
uh
agents operating against these business
processes
uh
within SAP or otherwise in enterprise
software, do you do you think it's going
to be um
computer used? Do you think it is all,
you know, code and tool use on APIs?
It's an interesting question. Uh I have
not a
a very
a finite answer yet to this. So I think
um
given of course also how clunky UIs are
and so on and so forth and knowing the
challenges also from UI automation from
the past. I mean it's phenomenal what
they can do already today quite frankly.
I mean they're still a little bit slow,
right? And and and so on and so forth.
But I still believe for the most part
it will
that the majority will live with tool
calling, right? And and agents running
in the background and so on, right?
because you also don't
you know,
maybe want to have the browser open all
the time. Okay, you can do this with
headless browsers and so on. But I mean,
if you can do this right with a more
structured approach from an integration
point of view, I think that will be the
preferred method. But then of course
there will be always kind of things
where APIs maybe not available or you
have a legacy uh system for a time being
and so on. And then of course these
computer use approaches and so on will
nicely tie in so to speak as as well.
If we zoom out a little bit and just
think about um um agents and um
automated business processes, in what
domains do you
uh hope customers will see that be most
effective first?
Well, I mean we need to be clear, right?
I mean it has been for the most part uh
very productive in what I call the
unstructured world, right? Because let's
face it. I mean large language models
are very good in the unstructured world,
right? Texts and the images and stuff
like that. And so of course everything
where unstructured data is concerned for
the most part like in services and in
support and and maybe sales, right? And
then of course in anything related to
knowledge work, right? That deals a lot
with documents. Of course this is where
we see like just do it for consultant
product I've mentioned, right? This is a
lot of unstructured information. This is
of course where, you know, it was the
easiest to get quickly to the to the to
the to the return on investment. It was
harder now to kind of combine this also
you mentioned tool use for example,
right? I mean the models had to learn of
course first of all and got needed got
better, right? On how to use the tools
and then you need to build
orchestrators, right? And disambiguate.
Oh, what does an order actually mean?
You mean a maintenance order, sales
order, purchase order? The many what
what order is a very overloaded term.
It's very
uh
uh very ambiguative. And um
so and that's of course this
orchestration logic. That's what is a
hard thing to build, yeah? And um
and so I think uh overall
but now that it has become gotten
better, right? Now you can do things
like chat with your data, right? And
instead of going to their data analyst,
business analyst that curates you some
dashboards and
uh
in 80% of the cases that might be a good
enough dashboard, but for all the other
20% of the question you always need to
go back to your IT department. No, now
you can just converse in natural
language with the system. It pulls the
data, right? Natural language to SQL or
whatever have you. Pulls that data. You
converse it until you have that point of
view of the data that you want to have
and then you just pin it and you say
like, "Okay, that's actually my problem.
Now I want to manage that problem for
the next I don't know two, three weeks
until the problem maybe has
disappeared." And then of course you you
you you move on. Maybe then you delete
that tile
and so on and so forth. Like so this
this kind of uh combination of the
structured, unstructured world which is
required, right? If you want to go into
the tabular world, right? Because lots
of data in finance is stored in tables
and sales and the supply chain and so on
and so forth, right?
Um unlocking that took a little bit of
time, but uh now is actually we are
seeing through for example the knowledge
graph, the SAP knowledge graph that
we've built which is kind of the glue
between natural language and the
structured data in the system to to to
really bring this together. That
actually leads to one of your um I I
think like I don't know if it's
unconventional, but it's certainly not
the the dominant narrative in AI right
now, which is your interest in like
predictive and tabular
um models.
Uh can you can you talk about like
you know, why LLMs aren't the be-all and
all here or why we can't just use um
uh tools and um
uh calculation external to the model in
in combination with LLMs to achieve what
you want to achieve. Yeah. Now, first of
all, from a business motivation, it's a
great question, right, Zara? I mean,
first from the business motivation point
of view, right? Again, LLMs unstructured
world, that's all good, right? But most
of the time, if you
if you want to plan forward, right? If
you want to make good decisions in a
company, you need predictions, right?
You need predictions in terms of oh,
what's my demand, right? For oh, is this
depending on the seasonality effect and
so on. What's my demand forecast maybe,
right? For my product in the retail
store. Or what's my demand, right? Uh
for my product so I can plan accordingly
my manufacturing, right? If I'm a
manufacturing customer. Or you want to
predict your cash flow, right? Uh you
want to predict and that has a bunch of
input variables like oh, what I actually
my days sales outstanding, right? And
that is determined based on our
customers paying yes or no, that's a
classification question. And if you then
say, "Okay, if a customer is not paying
in the in within the payment terms,
what's the payment delay?" A classical
regression question. And so on and so
forth. Now, the problem is of course
still today, if we look at these
predictive questions, right? And then
you want to maybe do a what if analysis
from it, right? Now, if you want to do
these predictions, quite frankly, then
the challenge is large language models
are not made for this, right? The way
how they, you you generate just one
token after another essentially, in the
sequence-to-sequence modeling. I mean,
they're language models, right? So, that
that then they do this phenomenally
well.
But, if you still want to do these
predictors, well, you have to go back to
these classical machine learning
approaches, right? You use XGBoost or
AutoGluon and and many of these AutoML
approaches, right? That that might be
that that are still out there. The
problem is just it doesn't scale, right?
So, we haven't seen in the predictive
space the same level of democratization.
Right? You still need to hire a very
good talent of data scientists, right?
And then if you, for example, if you're
a large company, we did this, for
example, at a pharmaceutical company, if
you just want to solve the payment delay
prediction problem I've mentioned,
right?
You have They are They are running in 90
countries around the world.
And they need these two models, so you
end up with 180 models you need to
train. You need to create the data.
You need to train the models, figure
out, right? What the right model is,
feature engineering, like the classical
uh uh machine learning kind of approach,
right? That that that was used in the in
the past. And what we said all the time
is, "Okay, look, we have all this data
and stored in these tables, right? 100
thousands of tables, right? Where all
this information is stored. Can we not
apply the same idea that large language
models or multimodal models did for the
unstructured world, actually, for the
structured in order to start predicting
things?" So, you can just basically
provide a little bit of context, a small
amount of data, not a large amount of
data, because that was always a problem.
Small amount of data and then starting
making high accurate predictions, so to
speak, in that domain. And that led,
actually, this was 2 years of research.
We published that also at NeurIPS and a
bunch of other conferences. Uh we call
this RPT1, so rapid one stand for
relational pre-trained transformers.
It's still based on the transformer
architecture, but with a very different
uh architecture. Uh we released this and
we see some some some meanwhile some
very very good results from that in in
various domains where as I said
classification and regression sometimes
time series and so on are concerned and
we believe this will be huge because it
obviously will allow way more people
from a business impact to to to make
these predictions which large language
models have a really hard time with.
Mhm.
Okay. When you
um
uh think about the gap in
uh
I think you described it as like hype
versus adoption within the enterprise
customers like The innovate the
innovation race versus the outcome race.
Yes. Innovation race versus outcome
race. Um
it's a it's a good framing like
the change is happening very quickly.
That's hard for companies to absorb.
Where where do you see um challenges for
the enterprise in adoption today and
where are customers making the most
progress with with you or where they
most excited? And it's a good good
question, right? I mean usually I say
the the the the the primary problem as I
said is is is the problem of AI data,
right? Because most of the time the data
is of course very disaggregated in a in
in a company, right? I mean for a
variety of reasons, right? Either
because you made certain decisions how
you purchased
solutions in the past or you did an M&A,
right? So they acquired a company
naturally of course they bring a very
different IT system landscape as well
and so on and so forth, right? So you
have to segregate it information. But
but the problem is of course that limits
the potential of what you can actually
do with AI, right? And and then the
question next is how do you integrate
this safely? And what I see is clearly
customers who did that kind of homework,
right? Now of course
it's not a new topic. We're discussing
this for 10, 15, maybe more years,
right? The ones that did their their
homework, they of course have a much
easier life, right, to then also reap
the benefits, for example, of AI, right?
The second one, as I mentioned is
already is the problem of scale, right?
The bigger, the more complex the
landscape and so on, right? Then, of
course, also then bringing this together
in a unified experience is a challenge.
And then, finally, of course, everything
around then security and so on and so
forth, right? Because then if there's
always then this gap between oh, there's
an amazing innovation, take open claw,
for example, right? I mean, amazing,
what what what this has brought to the
world in terms of further ideas. But, of
course, I mean, from a security
perspective
that's all that's a problem. You don't
want to run this like just like it is
there on GitHub and deploy this in your
organization. Do some I mean, this is
this is nobody would ever do this,
right? So, then of course, you need to
bring this make it secure. I mean, we
have seen with light LLM, how long is
this now ago, 2 weeks or something? You
probably saw it, right? Like with this
vulnerability that still all of a sudden
steals all your keys and credentials and
so on and so forth.
And
you don't want right? If you were the
chief information and security
security officer in the company, right,
you don't have a job anymore, right? And
that's and that's of course another big
challenge from an adoption perspective
as well.
What do you
think the
um
uh function of a finance or an HR or
supply chain team that would have been
operating out of SAP in their day-to-day
work um
you know, a year ago? What do you think
that looks like a few years from now if
they're successful if you and your
customers are successful with the
um AI transformation? Yeah, I mean,
first of all, it's very simple. They
will get rid of a lot of the mundane
work, right? Like collecting information
and preparing PowerPoints for
decision-making and so on. So, what
we're going to see is a much much faster
way of making decisions, making better
decisions, right? And then of course
automating the mundane work. So what the
people will do is they will run more
scenarios, they will run get better
deeper insights in a much faster way in
order to then really think about we
always call it as more strategic
thinking, right? And and kind of in a
way Sarah if you will for me this is the
same way like like a everybody who works
today maybe in the finance shared
service center, all right? It's for me
the equivalent of a junior developer
today with cloud code. And now they
actually become they've got one level
higher, right? They're now not so much
anymore
uh um
tasked with spending writing a lot of
the code, right? With with with code X
always called code, but they actually
then start supervising the code, give
feedback, right? And capture of course
the essence of what the code should look
like and then, you know, do much more
review and then rather think about what
to build next, right? Think about the
next requirement and how is that
actually differentiating So it will like
every every role, every level will kind
of get up leveled so to speak, right?
Because the the the the work that's
being done today will be pushed down to
will be pushed down to these agents,
right? And thereby therefore I I think I
believe in general what we will see is
that um people will just achieve so much
more because there's a lot of
intelligence baked into the system that
gets rid of of many of the things that
we're that we're doing today and that I
actually uh well at least in many cases
not a lot of fun. I I must admit my
ignorance here. I don't I'm I'm thinking
[clears throat] about this and I want to
talk a little bit about the impact on
the business if you're right as well.
Um
I don't actually know how SAP prices
broadly today, but the question would be
like how do you price and if you are,
you know, delivering more outcomes for
customers or serving them, you know,
services software in a different way, do
you think that changes the business
model for SAP? It does, absolutely. I
mean there's there's no question and we
have prepared for this already. So for
me it was always very clear I mean for
the most part SAP software is seat based
licensed
today with a few exceptions like a
conqueror or field glass for example or
the business network. Um but you know
very clearly with AI it was very clear
for us that you know step by step it
will go towards this consumptive world,
all right? At first consumptive and then
maybe in the next step once we have more
verifiability in the system then also
towards maybe an outcome based uh
license model to for example what Sierra
is doing and so on and so forth. Um
but the reality is also it is today for
us it's a hybrid model it's consumptive
but it still has a certain element of
seats in there and so on and so forth
because also it's a joint journey with
the customer because the the customer
saying they are not yet ready
in many cases
for a purely consumptive model, right?
Because they need pre- one
predictability, right? And then of
course they are not yet fully also
everywhere trusting the outcome, right?
And or node and also of course is the
value already there but then they are
afraid of that the costs may explode
from a consumptive perspective etc. etc.
So, what we So, what at the end of the
day what we have designed as a hybrid
that is basically ready for this
consumptive world but actually meets the
customers where they are today and
knowing that they demand still a lot of
predictability in the enterprise space
in order to cost control
the the whole thing for themselves as
well. That makes sense. It's unclear how
I also believe that transition's going
to happen. It's unclear how quickly it
will. Exactly. No, absolutely. I agree.
I mean nobody knows this and of course
you see customers that are more you have
have a wide range, right? They're also
of opinions, right? And of course some
customers are a bit more forward leaning
already and then others are more
still asking or demanding a classical
model so to speak and so therefore it's
a it's a
it's a journey. What do you um
let me let me rephrase that for a
second. When
when you look forward
and think about SAP's position five
years from now and you compare it to the
broad market pivot away from SaaS and
software in terms of just how investors
are valuing these businesses and their
enthusiasm about their durability.
My own opinion is like the challenge is
real and yet it will affect these the
the incumbent software companies like
very differently, right? There will be
winners and losers versus like
universally like everybody's market cap
will come down. What do you think
is going to be characteristic of a
winner or why does SAP get to endure
again?
I think at the end of the day it's all
about adoption and the outcome you bring
to the customer, right? I mean the
technology
look the reality is for most companies
the technology doesn't matter, right? I
I always tell tell to my developers all
the time our job at SAP is to make the
technology disappear, right? We need to
get the outcome in front of the customer
and of course not just the value itself.
Of course you also be able to produce
and price it in a way so it's a win-win
situation for the customer, right? And
and and and of and of course the vendor,
right? At the end of the day. So what
what we are really trying to do and this
is also why we you know from an
architecture we are so flexible, right?
We said like we don't over index on a
specific element we put partnerships
with all of them, right? And and and
really also only invest in the things
that are actually differentiating for
our customers versus the things that
anyway will likely get commoditized
in the in the tech stack and then try to
make sure that we of course make the
enterprise qualities in and the
integration is there and the customers
can turn these capabilities on almost
instantaneously in order to benefit from
it. Why is this important? Because in
order because if you take a lot of time
to reap the value, then your return on
investment is essentially gone, right?
Or it becomes the business case becomes
harder, right? And therefore, what we
are really focusing on is to to deliver
these outcomes to the customers and I
think that will differentiate the
winners from the losers at the end of
the day. To really focus on the business
outcomes for the customer at the end of
the day.
As we wrap up, I want to ask you a a few
quick fire questions including a little
bit more personal one. Um
our listeners always want to know like
what do you do all day as like a CTO of
SAP? Like can you just describe how you
spend your time? [laughter]
Well, I spend most of the time reviewing
the progress with the teams, right? And
we're thinking along, you know, from all
the layers with the teams from the
database to the models, right? To the
UI. Review the progress, give guidance,
feedback, learn something new, study of
course what happens outside.
Do a little a lot of prototypes, right?
Where we speak here, I have a bunch of
command line interface instances running
here, prototyping a bunch of things,
right? Trying things out, see what
works, what doesn't work, right? And
then give this also as as as kind of
inspiration
back to the team. And then of course,
you know,